function close int
parameter fd fd
errno -1

function closedir int
parameter dirp dir
errno -1

function creat int
parameter pathname cstring
parameter mode mode_t
errno -1

function dirfd fd
parameter dirp dir

function fclose int
parameter stream file

function fdopendir dir
parameter fd fd

function fileno fd
parameter stream file

function fopen file
parameter path cstring
parameter mode cstring

function fprintf int
parameter stream file
parameter format cstring
variadic real_vfprintf

function free void
parameter ptr pvoid

function getenv string
parameter name cstring

function getline ssize_t
parameter lineptr pstring
parameter n psize_t
parameter stream file

function getpid pid_t

function _IO_putc char
parameter c char
parameter stream file
guard #ifndef __APPLE__

function malloc pvoid
parameter size size_t

function memcpy pvoid
parameter dest pvoid
parameter src pcvoid
parameter n size_t

function memmove pvoid
parameter dest pvoid
parameter src pcvoid
parameter n size_t

function memset pvoid
parameter s pvoid
parameter c char
parameter n size_t

function open int
parameter pathname cstring
parameter flags int
parameter mode mode_t
errno -1

function openat int
parameter dirfd int
parameter pathname cstring
parameter flags int
parameter mode mode_t
errno -1

function opendir dir
parameter name cstring

function putc char
parameter c char
parameter stream file

function readdir_r int
parameter dirp dir
parameter entry dirent
parameter result pdirent

function read ssize_t
parameter fd fd
parameter buf pvoid
parameter count size_t

function realloc pvoid
parameter ptr pvoid
parameter size size_t

function recv ssize_t
parameter sockfd fd
parameter buf pvoid
parameter len size_t
parameter flags msgflags
errno -1

function recvfrom ssize_t
parameter sockfd fd
parameter buf pvoid
parameter len size_t
parameter flags msgflags
parameter src_addr sockaddr
parameter addrlen psocklen_t
errno -1

function recvmsg ssize_t
parameter sockfd fd
parameter msg msghdr
parameter flags msgflags
errno -1

function send ssize_t
parameter sockfd fd
parameter buf pcvoid
parameter len size_t
parameter flags msgflags

function sendmsg ssize_t
parameter sockfd fd
parameter msg cmsghdr
parameter flags msgflags

function sendto ssize_t
parameter sockfd fd
parameter buf pcvoid
parameter len size_t
parameter flags msgflags
parameter dest_addr csockaddr
parameter addrlen socklen_t

function socket int
parameter domain domain
parameter type socktype
parameter protocol protocol
errno -1

function socketpair int
parameter domain domain
parameter type socktype
parameter protocol protocol
parameter sv pint
errno -1

function sprintf int
parameter str string
parameter format cstring
variadic real_vsprintf

function sscanf int
parameter str cstring
parameter format cstring
variadic real_vsscanf

function strcat string
parameter dest string
parameter src cstring

function strchr string
parameter s cstring
parameter c char

function strstr string
parameter haystack cstring
parameter needle cstring

function strcmp int
parameter s1 cstring
parameter s2 cstring

function strcpy string
parameter dest string
parameter src cstring

function strncpy string
parameter dest string
parameter src cstring
parameter n size_t

function strlen size_t
parameter s cstring

function tolower char
parameter c char

function toupper char
parameter c char

function vfprintf int
parameter stream file
parameter format cstring
parameter ap va_list

function vsnprintf int
parameter str string
parameter size size_t
parameter format cstring
parameter ap va_list

function vsprintf int
parameter str string
parameter format cstring
parameter ap va_list

function vsscanf int
parameter str cstring
parameter format cstring
parameter ap va_list

function write ssize_t
parameter fd fd
parameter buf pcvoid
parameter count size_t
